## What is Digital Human Project?

**Digital Human Project is the first proof of personhood on Aptos**. The goal is to build a human-only digital identity network (human-centric) that allows individuals to easily claim their humanness in this AI era surrounded by bots. The core concept is to store human identity data on Aptos as digital assets, which is called the Digital Human ID, that humans can carry across the different ecosystem applications and prove themselves as unique humans for simple verification, acting as a universal digital identification. Humans are able to mint biometric tokens with their biometric data and compose them to form a complex Digital Human ID with higher verification levels. Digital Human ID can be easily intergated to DApps as sign-in method or gate content based on the verification level. The biometric tokens concept also open up endless possibilities of biometric data or even personal info (for example: DNA profiles, voice data, signatures, school ID) which can be used to mint a verification token and increase an individual verification level of their Digital Human ID. Soon, the project is ready to introduce custom biometric hardwares and set up physical verification points worldwide to ensure a more trusted environment during the verification process.

## Tackling Problems of Digital Identity Space

1.  **Proving Humanness Is Hard**: AI has made proving humanness more challenging, especially during Sybil attacks, where bots surround real humans. How can we easily identify ourselves as humans and be able to gate some content or space for only humans and not bots? We need a medium that embed all our identity information, and can easily prove our humanness for fast verification in different applications and real-world use case.
   
2.  **Lack of Privacy and Ownership**: Although there are various identity solutions (for example: email and phone verification, hybrid method verification, official KYC - Know Your Customer, Web of Trust, etc), privacy is a fundamental human right, and our sensitive personal data or biometrics should not be handled by centralised third parties. In other word, we should have full ownership of our digital identity data which is handled in a decentralised way. Hence, an open and permissionless protocol is needed.

3.  **Not All-In-One**: There is no existing solution which pack all your digital identity data (personal data or biometrics) into one and let you to carry around the ecosystem for utilisation.

4.  **Sensitive Data Security Consideration**: Existing digital identity solution is not safe from some security aspects as applications or third-party will have direct access to it. We need a session-specific ID mechanism which can perform ephemeral verification using our digital identity, but without direct access.
